We are going to talk about
[SOUND] my favorite subject
in the world,
component driven architecture.
And one of the things that
I want to call out here is
that when it comes to
application development,
there's a quote that I have in
the testing slides about complexity.
And one of the things that
they're talking about is that
complexity comprises of
really three main things,
managing of state,
flow control, and code volume.
With managing of state being
kind of the primary driver for
complexity and then control flow and
code volume being kind of like byproducts
of our inability to be effective.
And what I like about
component driven architecture
is that it kind of a mezzo or
kind of mid level range,
it allows us to manage
complexity between components
by managing state flow control and
code volume.
In a micro level, I believe that
observable streams handle complexity very,
very nicely in these really tight,
small, encapsulated, observable streams.
And at a kind of a macro level that
this is where like NGRX comes in and
handles very, very, very,
very nicely manage the state
flow control and code volume.
But you'll see here as I talk about
this that within a microcosm,
this is representative of an approach
that is effective at a micro level,
mezzo level, macro level, and
even I guess universal level, if you will.
But it's when we talk about
component of an architecture,
just know that it's kind of it
foreshadows or it is a pattern that
has a lot of implications outside
of just component communication.
So brief history of angular,
if you've ever watched any of my
workshops you've seen this is not new,
but if you are new and you've never
heard this, well you're in for a treat.
So if you think back to the,
I would say the second
advent of JavaScript.
So the very first kind of I
think advent of JavaScript where
people started to take it
seriously was with jQuery.
Then after that, then people realize
there's like, well, there's some
limitations and people tried to build
jQuery applications, which was very hard.
It just didn't work very well.
And then I believe kind of
the second coming of JavaScript
is within what I would say kind of
the emergence of the first generation
of modern web application frameworks,
and one of them was AngularJS.
And what really set this apart is
that you were able to do some pretty
impressive things very, very,
very quickly and very easily.
That I think I haven't been to
the AngularJS site in a long time,
but in just a couple lines of code
I was able to define a property and
then bind to it in my HTML,
change that property, and the HTML would
automatically update, that was like
a really big thing a couple years ago.
Being able to have two way data
binding that just worked was a really,
really kind of a shiny cool party trick.
And so you had a tiny app that really
consisted of a very tiny view and
a tiny controller.
Then in my case, I decided I wanted to
make money with this possibly even move to
Hollywood and make movies about this.
And so my application started
to grow with my aspirations and
eventually I got the green
light to do AngularJS for real,
for money, and so
I'm just in my mansion in Malibu,
and I've achieved everything that I want.
And I'm laying there in my bed
with my snakeskin rug, and
I realized that like I'm dying
inside that in all seriousness
that these applications had grown to
where what seemed to be like this really
cool novel thing is we had essentially
painted ourselves into a corner.
So yeah,
we kind of had this huge mansion in Malibu
style application but
it was just on tenable.
So back to me laying in my bed and
my snakeskin comforter.
And I was in a problem, we were in
a problem that this was a real issue,
at least within the AngularJS community
is what do we do about the fact that
we're writing applications or we have
one view, one controller, and they're
literally I've seen them like controllers
that are 5,000 plus lines of code.
How do you work with that in
a team to where it's like, okay,
you need to work in the first 1,000 lines,
and I'm gonna work in the last 1,000
lines and don't touch anything else.
So it was almost like if you've ever done
any real time document editing on my
Google Docs.
That's kind of what it felt like, but
with code that had to compile and work.
So let's just take a moment.
Let's appreciate this because that's
the place that we found ourselves in.
And there emerged two kind of
reasonable approaches to this.
The first one was to create named routes.
And so you had these named router outlets,
if you will,
in your application,
like maybe like sidebar, content footer.
And what that would do is then load
in a controller and a template.
So you still had that pair,
but it was going into a route.
And another, I think more that
gained more momentum over
time was to just create
directives that would encapsulate
certain functionality that you would
then attach to pieces of the page.
So you would have like a sidebar
directive, a content directive,
which was in a way it just kind
of foreshadowed where we ended up
with angular with instead of directors,
we used components.
So any angular application,
and if I'm being honest,
I believe that this is pretty much
like any react application and
probably any view application, potato,
there might be some differences, but
I know at least when I write react, this
is the same exact approach that I take.
In fact, a lot of the ways that we think
about components is because of the work or
the innovations that
react did in that space.
So I pour out champagne on the ground
him for the react team for
really bringing components front and
center into the public consciousness.
And this helped us solve
a couple of things, one,
the problem was structure as well
as the problem with communication.
So remember, complexity is
mentioned of state, flow control,
and code volume, and
by solving the structure issue,
that it helped alleviate some
of the code volume problems.
But also by giving us a clean
way to structure our code but
then establishing ways for
us to communicate, this helps solve
a communication problem which falls
firmly under the flow control category.